(GH-2361) Deprecate puppetfile commands and config option (#2457)
puppetlabs/bolt: documentation/bolt_installing_modules.md

> documentation on [Specifying
> versions](https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/latest/modules_metadata.html#specifying-versions).

## Manually manage a project's modules

There are a few cases where Bolt is unable to resolve module dependencies and
manage your project's modules for you. This includes cases when you need to

> do any of the following:

Author: I like this 👍

- Install Forge modules from an alternate Forge
- Install git modules from a repository other than a public GitHub repository
- Install modules through a proxy

Instead of using Bolt to manage your project's modules, you will need to
manage your project's Puppetfile manually and use Bolt to install the

> modules listed in the Puppetfile without resolving dependencies.

Reviewer: I think just a line that "This is the same workflow currently used for the `puppetfile` subcommand, but with the new `module` subcommand" would put users at ease a bit.

- If you need to install modules from an alternate Forge, or install modules
  through a proxy, set the [`module-install` configuration
  option](bolt_project_reference.md#module-install) in your `bolt-project.yaml`
  file. For example:

  ```yaml
  # bolt-project.yaml
  name: myproject
  modules: []
  module-install:
    forge:
      baseurl: https://myforge.example.com
    proxy: https://myproxy.example.com:8080
  ```

- Create a file named `Puppetfile` in your project directory. Add the
  modules you want to install, including each module's dependencies,
  to the Puppetfile. For example:

  ```ruby
  # Modules from an alternate Forge
  mod 'puppetlabs/apache', '5.7.0'
  mod 'puppetlabs/stdlib', '6.5.0'
  mod 'puppetlabs/concat', '6.3.0'
  mod 'puppetlabs/translate', '2.2.0'

  # Modules from a private git repository
  mod 'private-module', git: 'https://github.com/bolt-user/private-module.git', ref: 'main'
  ```

- Install the modules in the Puppetfile without resolving dependencies using

>   the following command. This command replicates the behavior of the

Reviewer: Oh ha just had to read a little further :sweat_smile: moving this a bit higher might still be better? I defer to Heston

- [bolt-project.yaml options](bolt_project_reference.md#module-install)
- [bolt-defaults.yaml options](bolt_defaults_reference.md#module-install)

## Manually manage a project's modules

If Bolt can't resolve your module dependencies, you must manage your project's
Puppetfile manually and use Bolt to install the modules listed in the Puppetfile
without resolving dependencies. The process for manually managing your modules
uses the new `module` subcommand, and replaces the now deprecated `puppetfile`
subcommand.

The most common scenario where Bolt can't resolve module dependencies is when
a project includes git modules that are in a repository other than a public
GitHub repository. If your project includes this type of module, you must
manually manage your project's Puppetfile.

To manually manage a project's Puppetfile and install modules without resolving
dependencies, follow these steps:

> 1. Set the `modules` configuration option to an empty array. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Set the `modules` configuration option in your `bolt-project.yaml` file to an empty array. For example:
```

   ```yaml
   # bolt-project.yaml
   name: myproject
   modules: []
   ```

1. Create a file named `Puppetfile` in your project directory and add the
   modules you want to install, including each module's dependencies, to
   the Puppetfile. For example:

   ```ruby
   # Modules from a private git repository

>    mod 'private-module', git: 'https://github.com/bolt-user/private-module.git', ref: 'main'

Reviewer: Hm, the error message for this case is actually a little confusing:
```
lucy ~/githubs/bolt/project ((eb3edb98...)) $ be bolt module install --force
Installing project modules

Missing metadata.json at https://github.com/puppetlabs/teams-ui-testing-module. This is not a valid module.
```
I know it's upstream, so I'll make a ticket for it.

   # Modules from an alternate Forge
   mod 'puppetlabs/apache', '5.7.0'
   mod 'puppetlabs/stdlib', '6.5.0'
   mod 'puppetlabs/concat', '6.3.0'
   mod 'puppetlabs/translate', '2.2.0'
   ```

1. Install the modules in the Puppetfile without resolving dependencies:

   _\*nix shell command_

   ```shell
   bolt module install --no-resolve
   ```

   _PowerShell cmdlet_

   ```powershell
   Install-BoltModule -NoResolve
   ```

Bolt installs modules in the Puppetfile to the `.modules/` directory in your
project directory. If you need to add or remove modules to the project, update
your Puppetfile and run the above command again.

## Migrate a project to use module management

If you created a Bolt project before module dependency management was

> introduced, you can use Bolt's built-in migration tool to [update your

Reviewer: I feel like this should be in bold maybe? Or otherwise emphasized? It feels easy to skip over.

Reviewer 2: It should be fairly clear in the output because it's right under a H2. Let's see if people have issues with it and revisit.

project](projects.md#migrate-a-bolt-project).

### Manual migration

In some cases, Bolt is unable to resolve module dependencies and manage your
project's modules for you. If Bolt can't resolve your module dependencies, you
must manage your project's Puppetfile manually and use Bolt to install the
modules listed in the Puppetfile without resolving dependencies. The most common
scenario where Bolt can't resolve module dependencies is when a project includes
git modules that are in a repository other than a public GitHub repository.

> The module management feature makes changes to configuration files and
> where modules are installed. To migrate your project, do the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The module management feature makes changes to configuration files and
changes the directory where modules are installed. To migrate your project, do the following:
```

> 1. Move any configuration under `puppetfile` in your configuration files
>    under `module-install`. This includes both `bolt-defaults.yaml` and
>    `bolt-project.yaml` files. For example, the following file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Rename the `puppetfile` key in your `bolt-defaults.yaml` and
   `bolt-project.yaml` files to `module-install`. For example, the following file:
```
This seems simpler?

   ```yaml
   # bolt-project.yaml
   name: myproject
   puppetfile:
     forge:
       baseurl: https://myforge.example.com
     proxy: https://myproxy.example.com:8080
   ```

   Becomes:

   ```yaml
   # bolt-project.yaml
   name: myproject
   module-install:
     forge:
       baseurl: https://myforge.example.com
     proxy: https://myproxy.example.com:8080
   ```

1. Set the `modules` option in your `bolt-project.yaml` file to an
   empty array:

   ```yaml
   # bolt-project.yaml
   name: myproject
   modules: []
   ```

1. Delete all modules in the `modules/` directory of your project.

1. Copy all modules from the `site-modules/` and `site/` directories of your
   project to the `modules/` directory. If you have configured a `modulepath` for

>    your project, you might need to move modules from different directories.

Reviewer 2: The `modulepath` would still work, right? Why would a user need to move modules from directories they've specified into `modules/`?

Author: Ah, true. Changed that line to say you don't need to do this step if `modulepath` is configured.
